Additional Lender Required
Repairs After The Appraisal
If your buyer is using an FHA or VA loan,
there is something important to know
about what can happen after the appraisal.
Even if the home appraises at the purchase
price, the lender may still require
certain repairs before the loan can close.
These are called lender-required repairs.
With FHA and VA loans, the
appraisal is not only about value.
The lender also uses it to
confirm the home meets their
minimum property standards.
If the appraiser identifies issues
that do not meet those standards,
the lender can require they be
addressed before approving the loan.
Common lender-required repairs can
include things like peeling or chipped
paint, missing handrails, broken windows,
roof issues, or electrical concerns.
These requests come from
the lender, not the buyer.
If lender-required repairs are issued,
you generally have a few options.
You can complete the repairs, offer
a credit if the lender allows it,
or decide not to move forward,
which could mean losing the buyer.
It is important to understand that
buyers using FHA or VA loans cannot waive
these repairs, even if they want to.
The lender makes the final decision.
The best way to prepare is to be aware
of your buyer’s loan type and address
obvious issues early when possible.
Being prepared helps avoid delays and
keeps the transaction moving forward.